Please note:  effective October 9, all content posted to /r/aww must be original content (OC) only.  Report this post if it is not OC.On July 1st, a highly unpopular change to Reddit's API pricing went into effect. Most third-party apps have shut down and so have many tools relied upon by moderators and projects for making Reddit more accessible to visually impaired users. Beyond the disastrous AMA by the CEO, Reddit's response has been limited to promises that this change will not affect moderation tools (it has) and promises of new and more-accessible first-party moderation tools. Promises just like ones they have made in response to past protests, but have consistently failed to fulfill. If you want to express your strong disagreement with the API pricing change or with Reddit's response to the backlash, you may want to consider the following options:Finding your favorite subreddits on other platforms and participating there instead.Refraining from using the first-party Reddit app, instead sticking to one of the few remaining third-party apps or patching one of the apps that shut down if you're using an Android device.Disabling ads on Reddit with an ad-blocking extension or a DNS-based ad-blocker.Cancelling your Reddit Premium subscription.Sharing the continued news coverage of these events.Encouraging others to do all the above.If you're tired of all the chaos on Reddit, leave it behind and join /r/aww's Discord server to share and view all things adorable: https://discord.gg/UXfd5PnI am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
"anesthesiaand"I read this as anesthesia land, and it just fits.
Sounds Dutch.
Needs more throat noises
I just got back from anesthesia land and boy is my entire being tired!
"Twilight sleep"
A prime candidate for r/PetAfterVet.
Another sub just joined, thanks!
Number 28 for me....
hi! it is recommended to put away the food and water after surgeries for atleast 4-5 hours since they can choke on it! The doctor should have told it :(
4-5 hours after anesthesia would be about right. That's not necessarily 4-5 hours after they come home. I am a veterinary technician working primarily in anesthesia and analgesia. I recommend to my clients when sending the pet home, already 4 or 5 hours after surgery, to give them like 1/3 or 1/2 their usual meal. If they can keep it down for an hour or two then give them another 1/3 or 1/2. The other comment about no food or water the rest of the day is definitely incorrect and dangerous.
Yeah, I feel like people are assuming OPs vet did not tell them the guidelines like every vet I've been to
That bowl doesn't look like 1/2 or 1/3 of a meal (or I hope not)
I don't know this cat, but my cats, even when presented with this much food, will only eat a little at a time. It's possible that this is such a cat and that the owner knows it. It's also possible that this is indeed too much food to be presenting to this cat at this time. It's also possible that more than one cat eats from this bowl.
I would agree under normal circumstances but after anesthesia I'm not so sure.  I'm certainly not a vet but after my cats have been under anesthesia my vets highly recommended slowly reintroducing them to food and monitoring them.
You're right. But I have had cats come home after anaesthesia and they've walked up to a full food bowl (full because other cats also graze from the bowl, but probably not as full as the bowl depicted here) and have a little bit of food and then wander drunkenly away (and then back, and then away again, lol). All under my watchful eye, of course. That's probably why this picture didn't look that weird to me.But, yes, cats probably shouldn't eat too much after getting home from anaethesia, even if they've rested for 5 hours at the vets post-operatively. They do need a close eye kept on them.
Lucky he fell asleep as eating too soon can also cause them to throw up the food and depending on type of surgery that can be very detrimental. I’m hoping the vet at least gave you this type of discharge instructions.
It's not appropriate to feed your cat that much food. Additionally, it would be preferable if you fed it in tiny amounts twice a day to ensure that the food was fresh.
Plenty of cats can regulate their dry food, and it’s not gonna be any fresher just cus it was in a bag. it’s fine.
This, our 5 cats have as much dry food as they want and none of them are overweight.
I feel like limiting food is what makes animals fat. Like sure you can feed them at specific times every day but i feel like surivial instincts will tell them food is scarce vs having a lot of food available
This massively depends on the cat. I've had cats that self regulate well and cats that were food insecure before being rescued who had no chill about food and needed to be carefully monitored.
My cat is both at the same time. She regulates well, is a perfect weight for her size and age (13 years). But she was a streety before being rescued, and she gets very stressed when she can see the bottom of the bowl. I fill it up and she sticks her head in before I've even started pouring. One or two nibbles and she walks away.She also stress eats - if we push her away because we have to work, she goes and nibbles to make herself feel better! So cute!
Eh, depends how they react, and on their history. Varies from cat to cat.My former roommate and I had a cat we adopted off the street, skin and bones when we got him. Never missed a meal again in his life, but that never stopped him from HORKING down anything and everything he could, as fast as he could, sometimes while growling like a tiny demon.
I used to free feed all of my cats. We have three. Two are now free fed but one is only fed small measured portions throughout the day because he cannot control himself and now has to lose weight because he's like two bowling balls. I had to buy special $150 bowls for each specific cat.
My cats lived to 17 and 20, respectively. Had unlimited dry food and wet food 2x daily and kept a healthy weight.
Exactly, you just learn the eating habits of them so you don't overfill and have to throw out stale food.My sister has cats that over eat and has to portion through the day. I feel lucky I can go out and stay overnight, sometimes two nights somewhere and just throw a bunch of dry out, and make sure the water fountain is full and not worry. Then when I get home, I apologize by feeding some fresh wet food, emptying and cleaning the dry bowl and give some fresh dry.My Momo will just randomly walk to her food area, take a bite or two and walk away. No food insecurity there, she knows its always there when she wants it.
thanks for that ;)
YMMVMy vet holds the cats until they wake up and their vitals have been monitored for a couple hours (usually ~6 hrs post op).For that reason I have literally never been given the advice to withhold food or water. Cats' livers metabolize differently and they can't safely go without food as long as humans can.
This x1000. My vet always said no food or water for at least 12 hours after surgery.
12 hours??? That's definitely way too long, would not recommend that. 3 to 4 hours after is long enough.
I've always been told to wait until they behave normally
but he is cute!! just be careful 🩷
BuT HeS CuTe isn’t quite an argument vs something that is dangerous for him.
They weren’t arguing anything though
They were just giving a compliment...
He sure is cute tho
??? What r u going on about man 😭
But he is cute though!
That's just your average cat person mentality
That is 100% true.
We’ve all been there, fuzzy buddy. The closeness of food can be all the blanket you need.
I have crunchies, that is enough.
Little buddy is smelling those crunchies and having some great dreams.
I came to say this. 
Must guard the kibble.
“Oh food, I missed you.”
Aww he needed a safe space ❤️
Comfort food.
anesthesia and
littering and
Smoking the reefer
The snozzberries taste like snozzberries.
YOU BOYS LIKE MEXICOO?!
I swear to God I'll pistol whip the next guy who says "Shenanigans
He can't pull over any further!!
Sending good healing vibes to your buddy
Poor dude, he's just doing his best.
“must snaackk. mus naaaazzzzzzzz”
He’s got good priorities ♥️ hoping he has a fast recovery!
Wishing you a speedy recovery little buddy. OP, love on him please!!!
Poor lil trooper is trying his hardest
Absolute champion.
Oh how precious. ♥️♥️♥️ poor baby.  Hope all is good 🙏🏼
I hope your baby feels better soon! I couldn’t help but notice that that’s a lot of food 😬.
You shouldn’t give your cat that much food. Also it would be better if you gave it in small quantities twice a day so that the food is fresh.
It depends on the cat. I have one who I could free feed all the time, he's relatively light and will eat only what he wants/needs; I have another who will eat as long as there is food available.
Mine were free feeders without overeating for a long time. They actually freaked out and screamed like demented banshees if they even got a hint that the bowl had a bottom. It took years for their previous food insecurity to disappear. Full bowls were like security blankets.
My unqualified take on that makes me think like they were starved at some point in their past and empty bowls triggering ptsd episodes. Good that they were able to feel comfortable and safe enough to get over it.
They were both starving street cats before I got them. My boy saved himself by just getting in my car, and my girl was like psycho feral attacking people when she was captured. She spent about a week in the pound and then about two weeks with a foster before I decided to take a chance on her.
My cat free feeds. He only eats what he needs to eat. And he will freak out if the bottom of the bowl shows. He’s run out of food, even if there’s still plenty left. This is where cats are largely different than dogs. Many cats can control their intake.
There are dogs that can control their intake too. I have a terrier mix that does so quite well. I just fill up her bowl and she eats it over a couple of days. I could never do it with my corgi, he’d eat it all in thirty seconds no matter how much I gave him.
I'm wondering if the circumstances of their birth come into play. Almost every cat I've had been a stray before we got them. And they all would eat as much food as you'd allow them. I'm wondering if a lot of the more self controlled cats weren't born as strays and never had the mental trauma of worrying about food.
It would be an interesting ignoble research project. My cat1, we got from the shelter when he was very little (a few weeks) and he's never had to worry about food; cat2 had a bit of a rough start to life including actually being returned to the shelter (I got her aged about 1-and-a-bit). It's in line with your hypothesis.
My two cats are from a cat colony. Both free feed just fine.
It’s bizarre you think a few hours in a bowl has any effect on the freshness of kibble.
I am not talking about a few hours, this looks like it will last the cat for a few days
You don’t know the makeup of the OP’s household or how many cats that’s intended to feed. 2. Unless you’re vacuum sealing your hard food every time you open and shut it, it’s getting older and staler in the bag or in the bowl. Even using well sealing buckets to store food, there’s a noticeable difference in freshness with a new bag versus the old. I’ve had a couple cats that would chew through bags to get at new kibble. Their enthusiasm returns to normal levels within about a week of opening it. Even if the cat is the only one, the food will be fine. You don’t see people using gravity feeders having their pets die left and right, do you? No.
Have you seen the shelf life of opened cat food? Hard food lasts for a long, long time. It’s different if we are talking wet food. But dry is designed for shelf life.
Some cats are different. I wouldn't let the bowl overflow like this but for mine, I always left a full bowl because I knew he wouldn't overeat. He's not the type. Usually took him about 4 days to get through the food and he was a solid 10/11 pounds his whole life. (before he switched to wet food now that he's older) Although I know some people's cats need to be controlled or they'll eat the entire bowl lol. But not every cat is like that.
Was gonna say that’s easily 3 days worth of food for my cat!
So most of the comments under my comment say they free feed which is okay but my vet has always told me not to leave food out for long as it can collect bacteria and its not good in the long run. Its not about over eating, its about giving your cats fresh food
Your vet is almost certainly talking about soft food, which is fundamentally different, being moist and coming out of a sealed can that microbes didn’t have access to. Kibble in a bowl has the same moisture and access to bacteria as in the storage container. Use some sense. We eat all kinds of bread and such that’s out at room temperature all the time. We cover it to stop it from getting stale, not to prevent bacterial growth. Kibble is closer to croutons than soft food, having been heated and dried to increase shelf life. It’s got so little moisture cats who are fed only kibble are usually chronically dehydrated. Bacteria do not reproduce well under dry conditions, which is why drying has been used for food preservation for thousands of years.
https://www.petmd.com/blogs/nutritionnuggets/cat/dr-coates/2016/february/how-keep-your-cats-food-fresh-33569Maybe give this a read?
Did you read your own link? It doesn’t contradict a thing I said. Soft food can go bad. Hard food is fine to leave out. It says don’t put out more than your cat can eat in 24 hours to prevent overeating and obesity. It has nothing to do with the bacterial growth you claim.Meanwhile, cats can go into liver failure if they go without eating for a couple of days. I’d much rather let my cats eat what they want when they want than hold them to my schedule, risk them not being hungry/being off asleep somewhere/off living another life and have them go without. Absent things like cancer and developmental heart problems, my cats have all lived to their mid to late teens. My mom, who has always free fed kibble, has seen similar results for 50+ years. Leaving kibble out isn’t going to hurt your cat unless it’s one that tries to eats enough to cosplay George RR Martin. There are cats that do that, but it’s a minority.
Sorry can’t talk to people in denial so will not be responding to you after this
So you’re the one who posts a link supporting what I said but I’m the one in denial. That’s rich.
Super cute! He definitely needs way less food than that though wowza
What a pretty boy!
Feel better, buddy!
hungry and eepymeirl
Smart. He'll inevitably wake up hungry, this just cuts out on travel time!
That's alot of food, huh?
Safe is where food.
Do you always feed him with a full bowl?
[deleted]
It's a mix of Friskies wet food with Iams dry food.
[deleted]
Well from this perspective the bowl looks full of dry food and seems to always be full meaning the cat eats till his belly is satisfied. This is pure speculation of course.
[deleted]
Having food available 24/7 will have them overeat and thus get fat which is obviously unhealthy.
Depends on the cat. We have three that are prefect weight and they have dry food available all the time. Two different wets gives twice a day.
I can't have dry food available 24/7, my cat would eat whatever I put down in 5 minutes.  I think she's part goat. All cats are different though, my previous cat was a grazer and I was able to do that with her.
Is he a bengal?
Where’s his cone of shame and why did you think it was ok to remove it so quickly after a major surgery?
My cat gets sedated for almost anything over 20 min, like teeth cleanings and extracting ingrown nails.  Neither of those are major surgeries or require cones afterwards.
Why are you giving the op a hard time? There are plenty of procedures that require anesthesia that don’t require a cone of shame.
Non of my cats ever got the cone of shame. My vet would’ve given me a body suit for the cat after the surgery, if he or she tries to lick the wound. Never needed it.
Is he a Ocicat? He looks like my big boy :)
The word is sedated.
i dont trust people with designer cats like this
Attempted Munchies.
Man's got his priorities straight.
Been there
Been there, man. Except I call it “weed and booze.”Best part is you wake and the sandwich is still there.
funny how cats can be interesting even sleeping.the first time i saw my cat respond to my trying to talk to her by putting her paws over her eyes i was so amused and offended.
🥹🥰
Awww, I hope he's ok.  ♥️  Beautiful coat.
This is my Mecca. I will wake alive!!
My cat would eat that entire bowl of food in one sitting lol
Sokka-Haiku by Earfaceear:My cat would eat thatEntire bowl of food inOne sitting lolRemember that one time Sokka accidentally used an extra syllable in that Haiku Battle in Ba Sing Se? That was a Sokka Haiku and you just made one.
Literally "comfort food."
Cats look at that bowl of food and still consider it empty :/
Those cats are too wild.
Once our dog got spayed. She wobbled inside, ran face first into a wall, kinda flopped on her belly and fell asleep right there…
Same
girl, same.
Lordy, what a gorgeous cat
Awww, poor guy! Did he have an operation?
What a cool looking bengal kitty.  He’s likely saying “You can take my nads, but not my food.”
He is beautiful. I love his colors and markings. Good kitteh man. Sending you and your lovely boy good healing vibes 😘
So brave
Poor sweet baby ❤️❤️❤️ he’ll sleep it off. Get well soon kitty!
That’s a lot of food
My cat had to be heavily tranquilized in the urgent care (totally traumatized him) so he came back high AF. He was so drunk that he rubbed his face on the food bowl and rolled around in the spilled food like it was his best friend forever. It was simultaneously worrying, cute and hilarious all at the same time.
