[Meta] Sticky CommentRule 2 does not apply when replying to this stickied comment.  Rule 2 does apply throughout the rest of this thread.What this means: Please keep any "meta" discussion directed at specific users, mods, or /r/conspiracy in general in this comment chain only.I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
there was always 2 sets of laws for the wealthy and the rest.
"If the penalty for a crime is a fine, then laws were made for poor people"
I love this quote, even though it came from a final fantasy game.
Does it really? I've seen it floating around the internet, and it rings true. Never bothered to check the source
It does indeed.The game itself is extremely good, the premise is the ruling elites and the church conspire with demons for power and wealth, ultimately becoming the demons themselves.  Honestly one of the best games of the 90s.Except for all the goddamn chocobos.
Nothing wrong with the chocobo’s
fines are violence, so no argument there for getting rid of them entirely
Came here to say this- is the political belief whether or not you’re rich? Lol
I think this is more it, and the tweet ss is just diversionary propaganda.  Keeping the left vs right fight fueled through winter.
Vivek calls it the "golden rule"Those who have the gold, make the rules.
The quote is from a 60s comic strip and has been used by many people since then. Giving a politician credit for it is absurd and naive. Especially one who has taken money from Soros...
The wealthy abide to a set of laws themselves? Doubt it, as they are the ones who write the laws for us
It's not two laws, but just one set for us, right? But then it just dawned on me there's the Constitution, the Supreme Law of the Land.Is it then plain to see that the second set mostly takes away rights?
if there are different laws for Demorats and Repulsivcans would that not make sense when we have state and local legislatures?
Was just about to comment this.
that's exactly what I was going to say.  it's always been the super wealthy vs the working class.  everything else.is just smoke and mirrors to keep us divided.   esp the b.s two party political system.
No. The two sets of laws are for the rich and poor. Otherwise, Vivek would be in prison for his pump and dump scheme.
Huh? What scheme?
The way he made all of his money, it’s public knowledge man.
Seems likeMost Billionaires are treated differentlyBut not all….
It's definitely all of them. Just because your boy got caught doing something illegal doesn't mean he is being treated like us commoners.He's going to get a slap on the wrist for something I would get ass fucked for.
They changed the laws in order to charge TrumpJust stop….
You trump humpers will come up with the craziest shit to make him look like a victim. Just wait till he starts selling replicas of his dick and I'm sure you'll be first in line for one. Take your war on democracy and gtfo if you hate America so much.
https://www.jurist.org/news/2022/11/trump-sued-under-new-york-law-extending-statute-of-limitations-in-sexual-assault-civil-cases/Changed the law just for him🤷‍♂️
Lmao. Not everything is about him. They charged a ton of people under that. What about all the other charges he has against him. Fuck off with this bullshit.
It was done for him and you know it. Gaslight harderEdit - have you noticed how certain keyword attract downvotes?Look at this thread and see how disproportionate the votes areIt’s obvious the DNC is paying for botsThey gaslit about CovidAbout vaccines About election theftIt’s just their next chapter
What if it isn’t bots? What if most people really do think the billionaire with gold toilets and his name in gold on buildings is a self centered dick?
Donald Trump isn't a billionaire
Here just to vocally downvote you
Project harder. I'll just keep laughing at you. XD
lol what a sad little existence you lead
Have you considered maybe we just think its pathetic to suck billionaire cock?
You could have all the people downvoting standing in front of you, the legislature who passed the law could explain it to you, all the other victims who brought cases under the law could tell you their stories... You'd still believe it was a massive conspiracy to get your guy.  You've wrapped your identity up in him being right and any opposing facts being fake.  I'm not going to change your mind on this, but maybe take a step back and consider how it would effect you if you found out he committed sexual assault.  Would you be able to accept it, or would it be too difficult at this point?
RICO laws have been around since way before Trump committed his crimes.
When do we do Biden?Edit: Welcome NPC downvote bots!
When you have evidence of him actually committing a crime. Has anyone figured out what crime he did yet?
Hunter's laptop has entered the chat ("10% for the Big Guy").
Is receiving money a crime? Do we even know for sure that he received any money? It’s an indicator that a crime might have been committed, for sure. But to put someone on trial you need an actual accusation that they broke a specific law. “This seems shady as hell” isn’t a legal argument.
Is receiving money a crime?Holy shit, seriously?!?!It’s an indicator that a crime might have been committed, for sure.Yeah, this is literally what's called evidence.(Why we can't have nice things...)
Let's hope he never commits the sort of crimes Trump has.
Groping children, or taking kickbacks?
No they didn't. You can't be charged for a law that didn't exist at the time of the crime. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ex_post_facto_law#:~:text=Article%201%20of%20Criminal%20Law,there%20is%20no%20such%20provision.
Just give it up….OP saw the Facebook repost of a tweet that says otherwise. Has done his research and has legitimate sources not all this fake news and besides people are saying the same thing, lots of people, the best people even.
Donald?
Not that onehttps://www.jurist.org/news/2022/11/trump-sued-under-new-york-law-extending-statute-of-limitations-in-sexual-assault-civil-cases/That one
That's a civil lawsuit. Try again
Yes they changed the rules but “tHat dOesNt cOuNt”🤡
You said he was being charged. This is a civil case.....And democrats have been sued because of that too, so it kinda kills your argument https://www.nbcnewyork.com/news/local/nyc-mayor-eric-adams-accused-of-sexual-assault-and-discrimination-from-1993-in-civil-lawsuit/4889226/But sure I'm the clown
Are you not charged in a civil case?Of course you areLie more
If this law only applies to people of a single political party as you're claiming, how are democrats being sued under it as well?https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/23/new-york-city-mayor-eric-adams-accused-of-sexual-assault
Bullshit
Stoopid division shill..
For a party that hinges its identity on being “Alpha” they sure love to whine and complain about being victims.
You poor oppressed little babies.
It’s recreational victimhood
Republican victim complex in action
This is what Gaslighting looks like folks
Can you explain how this is gaslighting?
Read the OPThen watch thishttps://www.tiktok.com/t/ZTRK7V8Jb/
This is the kind of surface level thinking that this sub really suffers from. You post in a sub designed for discussions but are unwilling to actually do that. Are you here for people to nod and agree, or to discuss theories?
Showing people are tested differently based on optical beliefs is the subject of this postThis is an examplesurface level thinkingK bud - now you can pretend you haven’t been alive since 2020 and are completely clueless.
I’m asking how that comment is gaslighting, can you explain how with words? I’m not interested in tik toks that others have made to get your opinion.
Did the few sentences in the OP confuse you?People are treated differentlyBased on political alignments
It reads to me like a republican victim complex. There’s countless examples of both sides getting away with outrageous shit.
AgreedBut Mitch McConnell and Nancy Pelosi are both working for the bankersThat’s the real divideBankers vs Non-BankersThe kids call it “Neoliberalism”
As neither a Republican or a Democrat, I personally witnessed a much different treatment of political protestors by the federal govt based on which party they were protesting for/against.
Because political alignments are not an inherent characteristic one is born with.One cannot change their race, but one can change their political beliefs.  These are not comparable as protected classes struggling for “civil rights.”
I’m racial fluidSo you’re wrong, Bigot
Tiktok is an actual Chinese disinfo platform
Hitler wrote on paperWe should start calling paper “Hitler Sheets”Or Maybe there is value in the content sometimes and not the platform.
Probably, but that goes for all platforms, they're just working for different countries. Reddit has Chinese influence too, and the US.
I came here to see a video of a conservative being lynched as ramaswarmy promisedWhat is this nonsense
It's gaslighting because it implies the root complaint of the discussion doesn't exist and is only made up in the imaginations of those who feel that way.Hope this helps...
Do you think both republican and democrat politicians get away with more than the average person?
I think all politicians are expected to fall in line with TPTB. I also think the only politicians that are currently pushing back against that are Republicans. But both parties are controlled by corporations and donors.
This is what a snow flake looks like. When people in privilege see others becoming more equal they see it as a loss of their own privilege.
This is what Gaslighting looks like folksYour post history? Absolutely. I GL couldn't agree more 🐸
This is what NPC brigades look like.
I think the largest incarcerated population on earth, mostly black, might disagree. The codified racial laws have just had added classism to further divide and conquer.
I'd like to correct you there.  90% of all those incarcerated are MENThe systemic bias is SEXIST not racist.
Well you're right in two ways. Destroying family structures in black communities through the penal system has been huge, but the effect on female prisoners has also been massive.Men disproportionately commit crime, and women and children are disproportionately the victims of the judicial system, so everyone is losing.Only the rich win.California has been removing the wombs of female prisoners of colour for much of the last century; today's Southern border detention facilities routinely sterilise without consent female immigrants.Then you have the role of drugs within communities of colour, mostly CIA run distribution of crack, smack, and everything in between, together with meth, on both current generations, and disproportionately on future generations who are affected in the womb by these things.
Personally I’m proud of what the first black president did to address this
What, Nobel peace prize winning war criminal Barrack? Lol. What a joke. that fucking Muppet did nothing to change black incarceration rates, went hard on marijuana when everyone was legalising, and ran illegal detention centres across the world waterboarding often innocent Arabs for years in black sites. The fact he came up working for Henry Death Kissinger tells you all you need to know. The guy built an alliance with the Muslim brotherhood, invaded Libya, then sent the whole country's weapons to Syria to arm and fund ISIS against Assad. Why do you think Isis basically disappeared when Trump came in?
Agreed Total piece of shit
Name One president who isn't a piece of shit
Trump did FAR more to rectify unfairly incarcerated people.  You all are so blinded by your irrational hate that you can't see reality.
Sorry, but that is a whoosh. Please read the comment you replied to again and OP's other comments in this thread.
It's just a gaslighting comment from a Chinese bot account, ignore.
Funny that you still need a /s tag.I thought it was obvious. Looks like the downvote brigade missed it. Bots don't do sarcasm.
Bill Clinton?  ;)
[removed]
Unchecked whining. This is the same guy that wants to invade Mexico
WHAT!? DID YOU JIT SEE THE SCREENSHOT OF A TWITTER POST! Are there more serious facts than that? /s
Just look at Cali
Can you be more specific?
[removed]
The 5th best largest economy in the worldFixed. Doesn't mean 'best,' and it only works for a very small percentage of them.
Have you read his book?Plenty of examples.
Here you go
Really furthering your point there bud
We are on r/conspiracy but people pretend they have no idea what is happening in the worldWhat is on top of this sub every dayNow you can pretend to be confused too
It’s a vague tweet that can be interpreted many different ways. Why not add context and tell people the point you’re trying to get across instead of making more vague statements?
I love that the right now mocks, asking for proof. HOW DARE YOU NOT TAKE ME AT MY WORD OR DO YOUR OWN RESEARCH!If you make an assertion, that is outside what is considered the norm or the known, then it's your job to prove it.
Yeah here is one, Joe Biden took millions of bribes from other countries and no charges. Trump didn't do that and he gets charges. lmfao are you serious
So more unsubstantiated and unchecked whining then.
Man I miss the times when actual conspiracies were shared around here.
This sub has basically became the_donald2.0, it’s so sad.
Even when they talk about real conspiracies, they somehow tie them back to those evil liberals persecuting donald.
Christians are the most privileged people in the country, yet they love  acting like victims. Now that's a conspiracy.
Whinny conservatives who act like victims because their wannabe dictator couldn't steal an election after baselessly claiming it was rigged against him. Now they're mad the DoJ isn't letting him get away with it. Clearly, they are the victims here lmao
Vivek is Hindu.
Yet he's now labeled white nationalist far right, at least his political views are. Smh.
I just think it's funny every leftist group and protest has extreme police monitoring and even infiltration to incite riots yet somehow it's the conservatives who are under attack. People have been trying to tell you for decades they don't care they just want money and they are literally killing the planet and will inevitably lead to an apocalypse. There has been a 70% drop in vertebrae wildlife since the 1970s. The oceans are completely overfished and polluted. But yeah sure it's the Republicans under attack.
The results of their actions is what shows what's really going on.One sides riots get slaps on the wrist(BLM/Palestine), the other gets locked up for years(j6).Those without bias see the two drastic differences.
Was J6 a riot or were they there to overturn an election? I forgot
Did a sitting President ask them to go. Did the VP ask Americans to go to the Capitol days prior.  We just watched the Capitol Police repel a Prop Palestinian protest group from entering the Capital. No extra barriers. No need to call the National Guard. They just did their job.There are videos of a tour like experience as cops are seen giving directions to the Jan 6 "rioters".
The ocean is being overfished by fishermen from Asian countries. Majority of the plastic in the ocean is fishing line/netting from those countries' fishermen. It's foolish to blame Republicans or Democrats for the ocean's pollution. Global warming isn't really a purely American political issue. It's GLOBAL.
This is the most stupid comparison I've seen for a while. This guys really equating the bizarre conservative victim fantasy to racial segregation? If only he could live a year as a young black man in 1863, or hell even the Jim Crow era south, and get back to us about how it matches up to his current situation.
this is so stupid that I'm going back to sleep
His boy, DT is getting literally every gift in these trials that none of us can imagine.  Including having one of his many cases tried infront of a massively corrupt judge he appointed.  He is allowed to avoid subpoenas and threaten judges and their clerks, dox people, and continue to incite violence.  He is still the darling of this sub, despite being a humongous criminal, and blatant fascist.
Tell me you have no legal education wihtout telling me you have no legal education.
This guy is one of the weirdest and nonsensical human beings in the history of our existance and has no place in politics.Probably a reptilian 😂 /s
That's a nice persecution fetish you've got there.
Replace political beliefs with wealth and I agree
Y'all remember when this subreddit had interesting posts?
Fuck Vivek, man.
I don't think you could be more ignorant if you tried.
I love the dumb shit that sprouts in this sub that has nothing to do with conspiracy; just right-wing butthurtedness.
"two sets of lawws based on your political beliefs", really OP? Can you be a little more specific?
Wtf does this mean?
SSThe United States has been taken over by tyrantsThey have turned a fat New Yorker condo developer into their mortal enemy and many of them believe that he is so terrible cheating in elections and jailing people for free speech is justifiedThose people are no different than the toadies who clapped for Hitler and Stalin
Anyone that tries to use the highest office in the country to try and change the election results in their favor against the will of the voters is an enemy of the US.
That's not at all what happened.Legally challenging fraudulent results is not "trying to change to outcome".
I'm certain he's referring to the perfect phone call.
Are the fraudulent results in the room with us?
"I think the election was rigged, so I'm gonna rig it in the other direction" isnt the defence you think it is. He did legally challenge it, multiple times, and every time turned up nothing.
If he were nothing but a property developer who had bankrupted casinos and who went on to host a gameshow, i might agree. But he was somehow elected to the most powerful office in the world and then tried to undermine and then overthrow democracy - like Hitler in is failed Putsch of 1923, he needs to go to prison for this. However, like Hitler, Trump attracts fascists, and he is busy converting the GOP into a fascist party built around a personality cult.
Dog whistle for civil war.
Vivek is just another slimy establishment actor. He’s saying exactly what you want to hear. He can talk, no doubt, but he also made his money from buying a failed Alzheimer’s drug, rebranding it, and then pump/dumping the market after a 1.5 B IPO.
Wait are you honestly trying to compare today's GOP with the plight of slaves pre civil war. Lol!!!!!!!!!
[removed]
Are we labeling people by skin color again? That's a big step backward if you ask me.
[removed]
I agree we should drop the skin color labels.
Gross
Why is this racism allowed on Reddit? Fucking gross man.
Didn't know the 1950s was 160 years ago. Must be this new math...
So progress? Because at least you can choose which set of laws you want to live by now.
No, no it's not.If anything it is showing that the two tiered system is squarely a rich/vs poor thing.  If anyone other than DJT tried the shut he is pulling in court they would have been remanded into custody, the layers would have been sanctioned already and he would be awaiting trial from jail.
Sharia law?
controlled op
So close to class consciousness but yet so far away…
Low effort post
Dems behind both
There are also different legal treatments based on race actually
Snowflakes.
What laws are specific to political beliefs, exactly? How can anyone buy this dude's crap?
Ray Epps and the rest of the Jan 6 crowed. If you do not see a difference in the sentencing between those that have been convicted of the very questionable Jan 6 incident, I don't know what else to show you. Of all the people that were convicted, only Ray Epps is seen on camera actively directing people to the Capital. In one video the crowd that is being accused of sedition, after he says we need to go into the Capital. The crowd starts chanting Federal Agent.
False. Name literally one example.
No we don’t…stop trying to divide us based on political party. It’s always been a class issue
160 years ago? More like 50-60 years ago
I think Vivek is only partially correct and believe that there are three classes of justice based upon your income:- Wealth = Untouchable.  Fight me on this point and until the elite wear orange jumps suits to do Federal crime there is no deterrent to change.- Fading middle class that afford representation = Modest chance at justice as long as you have your own representation.- Everyone else = Cooked.  If you're depending on public defenders you'll pay the fines and in the states where they actually still incarcerate you'll go to jail.
wealth - untouchableWealth didn't save Epstein or Trump. It is political power that keeps one untouchable. (Something you completely ignored)
Trump isn’t in jail and well, Epstein…
I don't know if it's that complicated, but the fact that our society would support the focusing of the justice system on political opponents with almost no pushback is extremely disturbing
I think a lot about how in Florida, whether or not a felon got their voting rights restored used to be up to the Governor. Guess which political class got their rights restored most often?
We have two sets of laws based off monetary (and regular) power class too.
