“Women?” Like I got a harem going on?!
It's "Give it to Yor women" so you gotta find out where Yor is and give it to the women there to clean it.
Is does say a singular HER which leads me to believe that YOR WOMEN is a proper noun. We're all just confused because it's in all caps. Yor Women is a specific person, whose job it is to clean this garment and others like it.
It's somewhere out in the same direction as Yonder
Pretty sure the faded part reads Made in Turkey, so there's that.
I was trying so fuckin hard to figure that out, now all I can see is "Made in Turkey". So whether it's right or not, I don't think I can continue with this level of commitment, especially since you figured out.
Mom and gf?
yeah but I still don't get the plural
It says "Made in Turkey" at the bottom. Guess the rest.
they can’t even spell your
Well, they had a woman who knew how to press the spell check button, but she saw this and quit.
Women*
*sips coffee
I think he was rite the first time
MerMAN!
And Barnacle boy!
He said a woman.
They were referencing how it’s written incorrectly on the tag
Im going to eat 20 cyanide pills 😭 i messed up
r/whoosh
What if the Yor Women are an ancient matriarchal tribe high in the Himalayas, unrivalled in their mystical laundry abilities
😂
or woman
Mackine
That’s my woman’s name.
Yor
All those instructions? Clearly a job for multiple women.
Men have multiple women where the garment is made.
Spelling and proof reading is her job too apparently
Made in Turkey, it looks like
Yeah. Why did it have to be Turkey? (Family is Turkish)
Not surprising.
Or woman, singular.
They from the days of yor
Or make women match the singular pronoun used later in the phrase.
I need to know the brand on the label so I can never support them

My what?
They obviously mean Yor Forger from the hit anime spy x family
*you’remstd’ve
y’all’d’ve
I can’t’v’n
You’re
Yoar
I have a hoodie that is similar except says give it to your mom.
Give it to your mom is kinda cute, "yor women " is at best edgy/stupid...
I told a male friend in college my mom didn’t know how to do laundry and I taught myself on Google and he was shocked. What, do you think as soon as you popped out your mom was bestowed with the laundry handbook and all the secrets of the iron? My mom doesn’t know shit about laundry and I love her to death but she’s not allowed to touch my clothes. I hate that stereotype.
I just kind of assume everyone knows how to do laundry by the time they're an adult
One of my roommates in college essentially had slaves his whole life so it was both funny and sad watching him figure things out.
It's an expectation, not a stereotype. As with anyone with decades of experience.
r/mildlyinfuriating
More then mildly.
Than
Insert The corporate wants you to find difference.... meme.They're the same.... moms are not family slaves. Dads are also capable of following instructions and selecting proper washing machine setting.....
If you can read the tag, you’re old enough to do your own laundry.
You trust a 3 year old worth detergents? I get what you’re saying but I’d say around 9-10 is when I’d start trusting them with that level of responsibility
My dad is NOT capable of following any instruction and is not allowed near anything I own ever. Granted I dont see him that much as an adult anymore, but having him ruin one of my chefs knives once a year is enough.
Get a cheapie decoy for him to use, hide the rest.  My ex was forbidden to touch certain things in the kitchen after dropping a vintage Japanese mug that was a gift and my favorite, it's replacement, and a teapot - all in the span of a year.
I’m a dad that does most laundry and everything goes in together and then into the dryer. I read no instructions. Mostly fine results!
I'll definitely put my kids clothing all in together, but I've noticed that my own clothes last a lot longer if I take better care when washing
“Yor women” lol… made me think of “ye olde women of yore.”
Me toooo, specifically “or give it to your mom, she knows what to do”I prefer that to this on, less “woman do your job” and more “mom is a genius”
Yeah my mom knows how to clean sensitive clothes perfectly. My fiancee just throws everything in on hot water and hot tumble dry then wonders why her clothes faded. I do the laundry for us both at this point so I don't have to buy her more clothes.
As a mom with older teens who do their own laundry, hell no.  It’s on you if you’re dumb enough to buy something that you think is too complicated to clean properly.
But mooooooom, it's your joooooooob. Even says so right here on this tag!
I have some shirts by the brand that puts the “give it to your mom, she’ll know what to do” label, and that definitely does not mean that the cleaning instructions are complicated. That label is a goofy way of saying it doesn’t need any special or delicate care. These are t-shirts not cashmere suits.
I still bristle at the connotation that Mom=laundry.  The men in my life all do laundry too.
I had a shirt that said 'this shirt was tested on animals... it didn't fit'
Rip n dip? I had a shirt with the hidden nermal in the front pocket that I loved… until I saw the tag.
The bloke is also supposedly a woman beater so very problematic all round.
Nermal?
Oh no… i have the same shirt and its my favorite. I have never looked at the tag!
So, just toss it in the washer and dryer like I do all my other clothes. Got it.
Yup it's natural selection at work in my laundry loads. Godspeed yall
O do the same with dishes, if it doesn’t survive the dishwasher it wasn’t a dish I wanted anyway

With my dishwasher, I've found that "hand wash only" really means that it will be fine on the top rack of the dishwasher.
Hand wash only usually means I'll take that bet unless it's cast iron.
No wood, no 200$ knives. Everything else goes lol
This shirt is dry clean only, which means it's dirty.
How do you feel about frilly toothpicks?
I'M FOR 'EM!
Always upvote for Mitch.
Mitch is the wild
You'd think that men who are unable to operate a washing machine should not be let near a driver's seat, responsible job or just generally shouldn't be roaming society freely.
It's not an inability to operate a washing machine; it's an unwillingness to dedicate any effort to sorting out clothes by specific washing/drying instructions when usually you're fine with whatever.
Then just buy clothing that is easy to wash? That's what I do. You're allowed to read the tag before buying.
I mean, we’re not out here throwing away our horribly damaged clothes daily. These men who can’t operate washing machines basically don’t exist. Men who never have a need to pay attention to the specifics of their laundry are plentiful.
Of course. That doesn't change my opinion though. Can't trust someone with selective incompetence around anything
But it's not selective incompetence. It's a rational decision to make when presented with evidence that sorting just doesn't make much of a difference, and is financially impractical for many people who have to pay per cycle.The old trope of all the whites coming out pink or your shirt suddenly being two sizes too small just doesn't happen enough (or at all, in my experience) to make it worth the time  and/or money.
What? I'm not talking about details like sorting, whatever works. I'm talking about those who "can't" use a washing machine (and would probably find the tag in op funny) at all and have someone else do it. Appalling.
Sure, but you're responding to someone who just tosses everything in, not someone who "can't". If you weren't intending to label them or those with their same approach as one of these men who "can't" use a washing machine then that's just my bad on misinterpreting the tone of your comment.
I'm pretty sure that's exactly what they intended but backtracked when called out
Yeah sorry I didn't read your original comment properly or responded to the wrong comment. Doesn't matter how people use it, for as long as it works for them, does it
All good.
The reason it's confusing is the person you're responding to responded to a comment and basically just ignored everything the comment said. Their comment should've just been a new comment replying to the post itself instead of confusing everyone else.
Only if your are a women.
*yor
*women /s
Yeah... How am I supposed to use non-chlorine water in a machine hooked up to city water?
The amount of chlorine (almost always chloramine because it's more stable than chlorine) in city water won't affect clothing. It's just telling you not to use chlorine bleach and should say "non-chlorine bleach only", or, "color safe bleach only", something like that.
Ah that makes sense. Thanks
Laundry thunderdome!
May the odds be ever in your favor!
From the Andrew Tate collection
Exactly. This is cringey boomer humor, or cringey incel humor. Just so lazy. It needs a laugh track to trick anyone into laughing.
The label says Made in Turkey. Over there this mentality is still mostly the norm, especially outside the bigger cities.
Tbf a lot of clothes say Made in China, Turkey, Bangladesh etcDoesn’t mean it’s made for a company based in that country. Just that Labour has been outsourced there
This. But don’t let critical thinking get in the way of Reddit’s xenophobia. Also, the label is entirely in English— the customer base obviously isn’t Turkish people
what's that idiot Tate got to do with Boomers? honest question since I don't follow anything about him
He was a reference with incels, who love him for talking down to women.
Where is Yor located?
She’s killing someone, probably.
Just another mission.
Berlint
Somewhere in the past
Actually, Yor is from the future.
From the future.
"OR GIVE IT TO YOR WOMEN"How many people does it take to clean this thing, anyway? So many reasons for this company to go bankrupt. It's like the sexist version of Happy Fun Ball.
Women, plural? How many am I supposed to have?I can only disappoint one at a time.
That's not true, I'm sure you could disappoint both your mom and sister at the same time.
r/SuddenlyMormon
Its made in Turkey so
Only yor women knows how to operate mackine
The follows that plural with the singular pronoun “her.”
Made in Turkey. They really don't give one single fuck.
Yep. This looks very professional. You know the jacket is high quality with messaging and spelling like this.
Reminds me of a skating company that put "destroy all women" on their tagshttps://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-1997-05-20-fi-60441-story.html
“The tag was supposed to say, ‘Kill your parents,’ but some people thought that was too extreme. Go figure,”
Because femicide is so much more tame
Meanwhile there's a skate brand out there literally just called "girl"
Got excited that roller blading was making a comeback until I saw the date. It’s due for a comeback, anyway.
You missed it, it came back during the pandemic, but now had gone again.
Inline skating or incel skating?
Please, pretty please show us the brand so I can go ballistic on the company!
Looks like the Indonesian sports apparel company Salvo got in trouble for this around 10 years agohttps://abc13.com/sexist-tshirt-tag-shirt-washing-instructions-give-it-to-your-woman/552370/
Thank you for letting me know. Some Redditors clearly think that this is acceptable and that public perception does not matter -or are misogynistic losers who believe this shit. I am glad that public perception at least shamed the company into a half-assed apology!
https://www.reddit.com/r/IRLEasterEggs/comments/f2jg19/hidden_conflict_starter_in_my_hoodie/Enjoi skate company did (does?) the same thing. I remember my hoodie had this same tag years ago. This post is from 4 years ago though. Prob has changed by now?
I just want to make a quick visit to the company
Haha. I just hope that the poor, underpaid seamstresses who have to sew those got out well before the idiot who created them!
If history is any indication the cheap bastard didn't keep the building up to safety codes and they all died.
There's a happy thought to start my day. I know that you are right, but I hate that you are!
its super common, old, played out joke from 90s skater shit that now companies trying to re-use as if they are the first ones to do it, to be "edgy" or whatever the word is for cool these days. such as Rip n Dip and Enjoi
Name and shame, OP!
It's likely a knock off brand. No real company is doing this.
I’m sure your angry tweets will really show them the error in their ways.
They removed the tag after basically saying that athletic boys were too stupid to follow simple laundry instructions. It is a 20th century concept that men are too stupid to handle laundry.
Yes, give it to "yor women" and tell her it's her job. That jacket definitely will come out perfectly exactly how you want it and not at all purposely fucked up.
Post from your real account Andrew Tate !!!!!
Fucking gross.
You should buy higher quality clothes
"Don't buy in the first place."
I would probably demand a refund and send that shit back
If you're gonna be that sexist, you shouldn't be wearing such a delicate jacket.
You are all gonna feel so silly when you find out his woman runs a very successful dry cleaning business.
im a man and i absolutely hate this whole idea of gender roles, men do hard work and women cook and clean is just absolute crapfellas when you have daughters raise them up to take care of themselves with education , self respect, self worth so they have high self esteem and most importantly point out the nonsense that idiotic barbaric insecure men pull to keep a good woman in check so they don’t leave them for better.if you raise them right, raise them up, then they will look above the clouds of all the riffraff and find some good decent men out there.
Men shouldn't only respect women when they have children. I wish I could've been respected long before men around me experienced fatherhood.
Wtf
Brand?
I remember an old Enjoi shirt I had back in the day that had “dirty laundry keeps women busy” on the tag.
Based
They can spell chlorine but not machine? MAKINE WASH COLD. also, damn, that's sexist. they could have written 'or give it to yor bitch' and it would have been less sexist and more edgy.
I’d like to know which brand this is so I can never ever buy anything from them.
Not funny.
Hmm how to know if my soap is mild or not? Better just ask my women 😎
It’s not that deep people
Underpaid label designer that holds a grudge against the company? Or just "smart" PR?
Hilarious, really clever and subversive humor no one's ever heard that one before. What embarrassing, illiterate dumbass thought this was a good idea? Name and shame the company.

Oh no
Looks like a real quality jacket also
For polygamists only.
‘Made in turkey’ checks out
Yor?
I would get rid of that jacket.
This might have been funny a decade or two ago.
…for 50% of the population
And that, yes.
Please give us the brand.We need to know
I could only wash something like this by starting a new life in NG+
womEn? How many are supposed to be there?
At least 2? Laundry ain't easy./s
YoR WOmEN
Really wish the last instruction was hot macchiato less sugar
No one thinks the bottom text is somehow photoshopped?
I do. I had to crtl+f to find someone else who thought the same.
What company so I won’t buy anything from them
So put in in the washer with mixed colors on warm. Got it.
Horrible humor
Likely troll post. So many on reddit.
Probably made in Pakistan
Yes, that’s really what it says. I have been a graphic artist for 11 years and verify that there is no manipulation done to this image. Someone at the wholesaler had a lot of laughs doing this one
Made in 1950…
English is not their first language. Neither is marketing.
hmm what brand is it?? i don't want to buy it by mistake
What does "non chlorine" mean?  Think "Do not bleach" would be easier to understand for most people.
No chlorinated water? But all water here is chlorinated from the tap?
Only marginally less offensive than Hecho in China
This message is obviously wrong and not funny at all. However I do like when manufacturers put in funny message in the laundry instructions. The label in my sons scout uniform shirt says: "Please remove and wash scout seperately"
Women.. amirite guys
