Even though the Americans did it first, they could have replicated the feat to demonstrate their capabilities and assert their force and prestige. When the Soviet Union sent the first man into space, the Americans followed suit shortly after, continuing the Space Race.Even if it took a few more years, it still would have been largely preferable to avoid portraying to the world inability to match what the Americans achieved, which would signify defeat.So, why did the Space Race conclude immediately after the American Moon landings?
They did plan to continue their lunar program even as it became clear the US would get to the moon first, but there were just too many setbacks. The Sergei Korolev, the lead designer of their intended launch vehicle, the N1/L3, died unexpectedly in 1966 just as production and testing was ramping up. (Overwork and time spent in a labor camp decades earlier were likely contributors to his death.) The N1 was also underfunded and rushed, and had no successful launches. An attempted launch in 1969 exploded on the pad and leveled the entire launch complex, which took two years to rebuild, and by then, there was not a lot of political will to continue to fund the project as the US had already been to the moon. The project hadn't seen any success and the government had no cash to keep funding it.
time spent in a labor campAfter being denounced by a rival.  Leaving aside the human cost, it's almost beautiful irony that the destructive Gulag system with the emphais on political repression was what undid their attempt to get to the moon.
Valentin Glushko who denounced Korolev was already under arrest and being threatened by the secret police, it's hard to imagine the pressure he was under when he made his statement. It was a terrible thing to do - but all too easy to imagine why he did it.The two of them had a really awkward working relationship even at the best of times; partly down to Korolev needing Glushko's amazing engines - but Glushko increasingly wanting to use hypergolic fuels for their simple, reliable performance which Korolev called 'The Devils' Venom' because they were so toxic and corrosive.In the end, the relationship broke down entirely with the N1's engines; Korolev had to go to Kuznetsov who had never built a rocket engine - but somehow managed to design a staged combustion engine more advanced than anything in the West.And Glushko eventually abandoned hypergolic fuels and switched to Korolev's dream combination of hydrogen oxygen for Energia. He not only designed the superb RD-0120 which had equivalent performance to the Space Shuttle Main Engines; but the RD-170 which is the most powerful liquid fuel engine ever created.
I'll say it again, to any TV execs out there, if you made a TV show that was From the Earth to the Moon crossed with Chernobyl about the soviet space program from the soviet perspective, it would do great ratings. Completely untold story in the west that is just as compelling as our space history.
You may enjoy the show For All of Mankind. Not exactly what you're looking for but it tells the space race from the American perspective if the USSR had won the space race to the moon.
how's s4 been? s3 started losing me / felt like it was swinging hard to soap opera
Only one episode is out with another tonight. So far it’s good but not much to go on. THAT character of S3 has not been mentioned yet.
Yeah season three is where I checked out. For me, it jumped the shark at the end of season two when the astronaut pulled a gun on a space mission and then was never mentioned again Also, like you said, all of the love interests stuff really started to feel like a soap opera.
For me, it jumped the shark at the end of season twoin retrospect yeah you're right, I was already pulling away in s2
Yeah, but it started so.  damn.  well...  I was hoping it would circle back around and this season would save it.  I usually try to wait till the whole season has dropped.
Valentin Glushko who denounced Korolev was already under arrest and being threatened by the secret police, it's hard to imagine the pressure he was under when he made his statement. The book "Gulag" really goes into the mentality at the time; ratting on your neighbors, making false accusations to keep yourself from the Gulags, the climate of fear and suspicion. A really masterfully researched look at a dark era of human history.
All the more impressive how well Orwell described that sort of environment back in the mid-40s.
And a big chunk of the GOP wants to bring that to America, it really seems anyway. Once you've got a dictator/personality cult going, shit gets dicey!
Yeah, Orwell writes a warning, and some see it as a manual.
A big chunk of the GOP is advocating the establishment of soviet style gulags?
It’s not just the GOP. The dems are just as bad, if not worse.
it's not just the GOP.  My vote for Obama was largely because he was going to close Gitmo and change the way we were doing things.  Alas, the patriot act is even worse today, not to mention the current admin trying to censor people's SM.  I think most politicians look at China's social credit score and think that's a fine idea...
Thanks for the recommendation!
I stumbled on it in a book store and if you're into history, it's really fascinating/horrifying, and a look into something the West didn't have a wide knowledge of.
*Looks around nervously*
but all too easy to imagine why he did itI agree.  I think most of us would have done something similar in that position.  The system is what was broken, so it's really sweetly ironic that it deprived the Soviets of their most valuable space asset (remembering that we are talking about a person here) right when he was needed most.
Remember when the US accused a physicist on the rocket program of having communist Chinese sympathies so deported him to China where he promptly built them an ICBM. Good times.
The fact that Stalin sent a lot of intellectuals and jews(including some of the best doctors) to the Gulags also had a lot to do with bis deat as nobody could find a doctor who could help him. The irony is delicious, even if it's a very sad thing.
beautiful irony Irony behind the iron curtain
The Irony Curtain
The same thing almost lost them WW2.
Self sabotage seems to be the motto of Russia.
Hey, we might have that here in the US depending on how the next election goes. So exciting! /s
If you’re talking about camps then they already existThere’s also all the prisons
Somewhat related anecdote, in the TV series "For All Mankind," the point of divergence is that Korolev lives in that timeline and the Russians make it to the moon before the US.
Well, he also wants to defect, but the USSR is too good spying.There is a certain lesson to be learned from the Cold War. The US took in former Nazi scientists, gave them all the opportunities - and surprise, they suddenly didn’t want to be Nazis anymore.The soviets took a more revenge focused approach, put everyone into working camps, make them suffer for what they did!I believe that this can be translated to everyone. Give some murders the chance to repent and do better, or make them suffer on death row and eventually kill then.
Also, they pivoted to long duration space flight, which is what we should have been working on too.  Instead we spent a few decades dicking around with a space plane designed by Congress and fell way behind.  Pretty much all the bits that make the ISS work are Russian modules.
The N1 was also underfunded and rushed, and had no successful launches.There is a video compilation of all four failed launch attempts here.
The Sergei KorolevDid it have to be The Sergei Korolev? Couldn't they have just gotten A Sergei Korolev?
Never your Sergei Korolev
TLDR: Skill issue
Was that 1969 explosion the one that also killed a bunch of their rocket scientists, because they were nearby to watch the launch?
Different explosion.  Nedellin Catatrophe.  Certainly didn't help.https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nedelin_catastrophe
I think you're talking about a disaster that happened much earlier. I'll try to find a source when I get home from work.
The whole reason to get into orbit was to make ICBMs possible. Everything after that was national ego (and a bit of science).
So for a 5 year old “the Russian’s tried but actually couldn’t make it. They didn’t have science and engineering yet with not enough money. “
Everything the Soviets did, the Americans did eventually. The Americans did something the Soviets never managed to. That is why the Americans won the space race.
The oversimplified version:They weren't really focused on the Moon, they were more focused on space stations.When it became clear America was serious about the Moon, they attempted to rush a secret Moon program.The head rocket designer in charge of the Moon program died, which is one of the key reasons the Moon program failed.The Moon program proceeds to have four failed launches, and by this time it is IIRC 3 years after the Moon landing, and it would have required several more years to finish.Rather than come in a very distant second, they opted to cancel the program, scrap the 2 rockets they had almost ready to go, and continue focusing on space stations, so they could claim they weren't even trying, and that they were winning at what they set out to do.Point 5 is in contrast to your assumption, if it was a close race, they probably would have continued, but it would not have been anywhere near close.
They also sent 28 missions to Venus. which had its own unique set of challenges and they achieved their  own scientific discoveries. It's really fascinating stuff and the engineering involved for the probes is kinda understated, with each prove lasting longer in some of the harshest conditions in the solar system. I really commend the endeavour and recommend everyone do some research on the Venera missions.
I really commend the endeavour and recommend everyone do some research on the Venera missionsFor the lazy among us, is there a documentary that you can recommend?
Simon Whistler has a short YouTube video that discusses the Venera missions.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nvkMwv9EYQQ&pp=ygUMdmFuZXJhIHByb2Jl
Informative video.  But...I imagine I'll be the unpopular opinion here, but does anyone else find his delivery style unbearable?  thewayhemashesseveralwordstogethernonstop followwwwwwed byyyyy drawing certain words out andagainmashingwordstoghersometimesnotevenstoppingattheend of a sentence before starting another one in the same word.  Is there a name for this awful type of narration?  I honestly find him pretty hard to understand, so distracting.
You know, I get this. I can only take him in small amounts, usually weeks if not months apart and you put your finger on why. There's another youtuber (CityNerd) with whom I have this issue and it's a shame because I'm really interested in his content but his narration style is just...distracting. It's almost like he becomes uninterested in his own video. It has to do with how he ends his sentences, but I have a hard time articulating it
I like that dude, but he has been selling his face to some low-budget channels lately.  The graphics and animations, if there are any, are so cheap on some of his recent videos.  I've seen a bunch of things that should have been an animation, like how two moving parts interact, and it's just a picture, and they describe it like it's animated.  You're better than this Simon
then this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEmlOjKmL68 might Be more worth it. Discovered with google suggestions when you click the link.  Over three times the views, and at least double the age.
It's the content of the channels that matters. The channels that feature him like Into the Shadows and Warographics cover interesting topics and they are quite well researched. Not every story needs a custom visual.
I get that it's just a little jarring when one of the biggest names on YouTube has high-school PowerPoint level graphics.
Wait until you see what gets presented at academic conferences. Fancy graphics aren't an indicator of quality.
No, but when your business is entertaining and informative videos, better graphics are more entertaining and can be more informative.
I've never understood him in the sense that I see him on a bunch of different channels, but I don't even think he owns his own channel. Is he just like the equivalent of the top gear presenters where he just is contracted to do presentation work or something? It's really weird.
Also, the upper atmosphere of Venus is one of the most likely places we might find life.  We just focus on Mars because it's a lot better environment for robots.
They also send about 22 missions to Mars, all of which failed.  I’m not sure I would have trusted a Soviet mission to the moon, ESPECIALLY since they did not have a continuous worldwide network in place to maintain contact with the crews.
This is American propaganda at work by the way. "the soviet space program is dangerous and they cut corners" Literally in our school text books, yet we have lost a lot more people on space missions than Russia and the Soviets. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_spaceflight-related_accidents_and_incidentsLook how many people we lost in JUST training.
By raw numbers this is true, but there are multiple items that feed into this:-US flight personnel get far more flight time than the USSR/Russia are able to maintain (in conventional aircraft) during training. Depending on the exact era, average pilot flight hours are/were somewhere around half of NATO/Western pilots. This isn't to disparage them or their capabilities, but higher tempo will lead to more incidents - just as an example, Yuri Gagarin was endorsed for the cosmonaut program with less than 300 hours of flight time, whereas Neil Armstrong had nearly *2500* flight hours by the end of his test pilot days.-The space shuttle alone flew almost as nearly total missions as all of Soyuz has since 1967 with higher crew counts; two incidents with high crew counts lead to higher numbersThe myth and propaganda have some very real basis, in that the risk calculus during the Soviet space program days had some very, very loose tolerances at certain points. Corners are always cut - it's a balance that at various points always changes depending on the mission and program, but the fact is that the USSR had more capability to suppress failures and bad outcomes and more direct willingness to accept the risk of a failure for many of the missions. There were many, many talented engineers, designers, and pilots, but they were hamstrung by various factors that forced their space program in that direction.You're not wrong that there is a significant propaganda basis for shotgunning the idea that everything from the USSR was slapdash and hazardous, but it's disingenuous to dismiss it entirely without looking at the nuances.
I'm not saying the Russian program was free of risk, I am saying the US was just as bad if not worse at cutting corners and ignoring data. Apollo 1 had known defects which were ignored. I won't speak for Challenger, but engineers made many warnings leading up to Columbia which went ignored and then we continued to fly space shuttle missions for a half decade after... We have had plenty of our own issues with our space program that we really shouldn't throw stones at the space program with a better safety record is all i'm saying.
Using the throwing stones/glass house idiom in this context is strange because there's no need to compare the two space programs every time one of them is discussed. The OP question is a historical one about the Soviet program, not someone comparison shopping ticket prices for a moon holiday between the two programs and wondering about their relative qualities.There can be a discussion of the faults of the Soviet program on its own without needing to interject that the American program had its faults too. And, not because people are trying to suppress American historical faults, but because it's irrelevant to the topic.
The comment a bit further up the chain was "I wouldn't trust a Soviet mission to the moon" with the implication that an American mission would be trustworthy and safe by comparison. It's completely warranted to compare in this context.
...Do you have statistics which control for number of missions and personnel-hours?My quick searching tells me the Soviets ran about 70 crewed launches throughout their period. By the time the USSR fell the US had half that many in the space shuttle alone, and most of those missions had twice the crew of the Soviet missions. Sure, American Airlines has been responsible for more airplane fatalities than Bubba the crop-duster; that doesn't mean he's safer.
and then we used Russian rockets exclusively for like 2 decades because they were much safer than the accident prone space shuttle.
I'm not looking to get into a dick measuring contest about which space program is better. I'm genuinely asking if you have statistics which measure based on something approximating flight hours.
I don't think flight hours are the best metric since most, if not all, fatalities have been on launch or re-entry, depending on how you count Soyuz 11.  That was the last time they lost a spacecraft, which was in 1971.  We've lost two shuttles more recently because Congress shouldn't design spacecraft.
The Shuttles had a combined 135 flights. With 2 catastrophic failures leading to the deaths of 14 astronauts. Three more astronauts died in the Apollo 1 fire.The Soyuz has been flying in some form since the 1960s with 147 crewed missions, with 4 deaths over that span (Soyuz 1 and Soyuz 11). There are uncrewed variants, and I think combined, Soyuz is nearing 2000 total flights The Soviet manned space program was definitely safer, and I'd argue a lot of that comes from the Americans being more ambitious with their vehicles. But those ambitions also led to the shuttle's fatal flaws. Big space planes are probably just not a good idea tbh. Theres a reason NASA went back to capsule designs, they are wayyyy safer. If something goes wrong with the rocket its far more practical to get a capsule out of there quickly than a big massive space plane with vulnerable wings.
I'd argue that he doesn't need them.  The "propaganda" is that USSR was getting their space achievements at a huge cost to human life, which is not supported by publicly available data.  If they did fewer missions, that does not change that their space program did not actually cost very many lives (as far as we know).
no, but the proof is that from the Columbia disaster until now, the US has hitched around 60 flights from the Russians because they are safer. Nearly every American astronaut is fluent in Russian!I'm not saying one is better or not, I am saying that the idea the Russians were careless and cut corners doesn't line up with reality compared to the US program.
the US has hitched around 60 flights from the Russians because they are safer.When you have one choice of a vendor, there really isn't a calculus of if something is safer.  It is simply an accepted risk.
The Soviets and Russians also never had a space craft that could hold more than 3 people at once
this isn't one of those tricks is it? where you tell me to "google Venera missions rule 34 for more info" and it's like furry porn or something.
naaaaw I wouldn't do that to you, just Google "hot sweaty gassy venera mission probe prolapse documentary video"
I read about the missions and they made me uncomfortable.    That’s right….Vaneral.  Dis-ease
Are you also uncomfortable with probing the seventh planet from the sun?
Venus - goddess of love, venereal - of Venus
By the way, the entire premise of the TV drama For All Mankind (on Apple TV+) is that #3 doesn't happen (the head rocket designer doesn't die), the Soviets end up beating the Americans to the Moon by a matter of weeks, and the space race heats up instead of cooling off. The alternative history continues from that point... the show is currently on season 4 and by 2003 there's a sizeable multinational research and mining settlement on Mars. The show gets a bit melodramatic at times but it's a fun watch.
I'm just starting season 2 of this series. It's SOOO good!
It's an interesting though experiment, but I don't think Korolev's survival would have made a big difference. He was an incredibly importan figure and it was him who kept the Soviet lunar program alive, but I doubt he could have made it succeed. His main problem was that he just couldn't get the engines he wanted for the N-1. The Saturn's F-1 engines were integral to its success and the Soviets had nothing comparable. Korolev would likely just have drawn out the inevitable demise of the lunar project.
From a western prospective it always feels like the Americans won the space race because they beat them to the moon. Realistically the US needed a win after the Soviets got a man into orbit first and made it all about the moon. As you say, it wasn't the Soviet's objective but they gave it a go to try to keep some the pride in their space supremacy. These programs are very expensive, without the "glory" there isn't much return on investment in going to the moon.
The Soviet Union did launch pars of the planned lunar lander into orbit. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosmos_434 it the most well-known but there was 2 others launched in 1971 was an uncrewed test of a Soviet lunar lander in earth orbit.    It was launched on a Soyuz carrier rocket. It was known it was in obit by Western observers but not what is was or at least not public knowledge. There were fears is carried nuclear fuel. It was not until after it repeated over Australia that the Sovets admitted what it was.There was also test-launched with the spaceship that was a modified Soyuz. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zond_5 manager a lunar flyby and landed back on Earth in September 1968. There were test animals onboard including two tortoises. It was a plane to be crewed but a previous launch failure resulted in a change to the animal payload.  Zond 6 did a lunar flyby in November 1968 but crashed because of a parachute failure. That meant there could not be a crew launched directly after and Apollo 8 managed the first crew's spacecraft that left Earth and went into a lunar orbit, the mission was December 21–27, 1968If the Soviet program had just gone a little better they could have had the first crewed flight around the moon.You need a larger spaceship that can carry enough fuel to get into and out of a lunar orbit and that requires a larger launch vehicle on Earth.The lunar lander was considered tested and considered ready for usage.  The main problem was to carry it, the crew and the spaceship to the moon a larger rocket was needed. It was the Soviet equal to the Saturn V that was called N1. There was 4 test flight of it, two in 1969, one is 1971 and the final in 1972. If there had been a successful launch of it we might have seen a Soviet crew landing on the moon after the Americans, it looked like most other required technology was ready.  The Soviets not not exactly publish their plans in advance like the Americans did. So there is not public information from the time of the planned mission.
To add: the N1 was basically an impossible idea for the era. Apollo used 5 massive engines (which almost failed, and they were hand-crafted marvels), but the Soviets didn't have the technology to manufacture such engines, so they instead used a lot of small ones - 30 in total. That required such a level of control that we struggle even today. SpaceX Starship will be the first one which may/hopefully can pull it off.   (It requires far finer control, as 30 engines mean a LOT more turbopumps and a far, FAR finer control required to make sure your rocket goes where it should go).
JFK thought going to the moon was dumb and a waste of money. It was only Sputnik scaring the shit out of America that they kind of went "shit"He said to NASA in 1962 "im not that interested in space"
JFK probably didn't give a shit about Guadalcanal in 1939, either.People are allowed to change when presented new information.
And look what that got him....
Ain't that a kick in the head...
Because the space race wasn't ever about space. It was about ICBMs and improving rocket technology to improve ICBMs.
Wow, you have literally posted this almost identical comment 5 times in this thread. Feels like bait for an argument so, there is no reason scientific exploration and missile research couldn't both be overlapping goals for the space program.
The whole reason to get into orbit was to make ICBMs possible. Everything after that was national ego (and a bit of science).
The entire space race was meant to design ICBMs and thrn refine them. Instead of telling the public  "hey, we're designing missles that can wipe out your city in mere minutes " they strapped some people inside and said they were interested in space exploration.
The entire space race was meant to design ICBMs and thrn refine them. It's a lot more complicated than that. The technologies developed for Apollo were vastly more complex than doing a ballistic-arc missile, and the really hard, groundbreaking and expensive stuff was all about getting humans 250,000 miles away and home again. Not just man-rating for rockets, but telemetry, guidance, the adoption and development of microchips, the massive industrial scale and project management. Very little of what Apollo developed had the slightest bearing on ICBMs. It was a massive investment financially that had barely any military payoff, other than the technological payoff that jump-started the computer age.Kennedy initially pushed for the moon to one-up the Soviets, scientists told him it was more like a hundred-up (particularly in costs, costs that wouldn't pay off while he was still president). Privately he became very ambivalent, suggested that we should partner with the soviets, and was leaning towards cutting the "before the decade is out" deadline or stopping the program entirely. When he was killed, he became a martyr, and Johnson went all-in on the moon. It wasn't a military project and the military had no interest in sticking humans on ICBMs and orbiting the moon before they slammed them into Moscow.Read "One Giant Leap" (Fishman, 2019) for a very in-depth look at the cultural and political forces that shaped the Apollo program.
Not really, the USAF quite publicly developed the Atlas, Titan, Polaris and Minuteman. The Saturn family really wasn’t very useful as a ICBM. Neither was the Soviet N-1
The Saturn V was completely useless as an ICBM. It was designed to convince the world of US technical superiority.
Yes, the Saturn V wasn't a ICBM. But if you think they didn't use much of the same technology and understanding from building the Saturn V into ICBMs you're ignorant.
The F-1 came from some ICBM project in the 50s, but they'd abandoned Kerosene-Lox for ICBMs by the 1960 for first the Titan hypergolic and then solid fuel Minutemans. Right?
Indirectly, the F-1 was originally part of Project Horizon whose goal was to emplace ICBMs on the lunar surface, but not as an ICBM engine itself
That's not really true. Especially considering the fact that both the USSR and USA used already existing ICBMs to jumpstart their space programs.Sputnik and Vostok were launched with modified R-7 Semyorka.The SM-65 Atlas was the big workhorse for the Mercury and Gemini program.
Yes, but I would just like to point that landing on the moon and getting back is not just "a win", but is by miles more impressive than just putting a man in orbit and shipping him down via drop pod.
Except you train excellent engineers and other scientists that can propel your country’s industrial output, make incredible material discoveries, you get wonderful rockets to kill millions at a distance. That’s not counting the non-material benefits.If you don’t fear brain drain, a space program is one of the best investments your country can make.
This is why the space race ended after 1969, because the US won for once.If China puts a person on Mars then they can claim the title until the next big event.
Agreed. If the Soviet's got to the moon first we would be huffing Jupiter by now.
Woud have been good For All Mankind!
I see what you did there!
The Marxist-Leninist way of life.
Only if they bring them home, as well.
the US won for onceI think the soviets had a single manned successful orbital rendezvous by the time the US landed, which was something the US did in 65. The US was ahead in the race for a while.
This is a bad take. The Russian “wins” were rushed for propaganda effect. The first Soviet satellite Sputnik only had a radio transmitter, while the first US satellite launched mere months later had a scientific payload that discovered the Van Allen Belt. The Soviet Space Program had a lot of first but they were rushed and reckless, while NASA focus was much more methodical and value driven.
Glad to see someone knows their history.In some ways, I really respect the Soviets for their troll game.  It was simple, but effective.  Find out when the Americans are planning on doing something in space; find a cheaper alternative, even if it is less useful; beat the Americans to it.And considering that the Soviets had a significantly smaller economy to support the space program, it was still impressive.The biggest problem they had, though, was that their entire program rested on one man: Korolev.  As long as he was around, the Soviets were punching way above their weight class.  The moment he died, their space program came back down to Earth, so to speak.The moon shot was the point where it all fell apart.  Korolev dies, they can't half-ass it to the moon, and the money needed was just too much for them.
He was brilliant, no doubt, but an interesting quote from Khruschev’s son:I think Russia had no chance to be ahead of the Americans under Sergei Korolev and his successor, Vasili Mishin. ... Korolev was not a scientist, not a designer: he was a brilliant manager. Korolev's problem was his mentality. His intent was to somehow use the launcher he had [the N1 rocket]. It was designed in 1958 for a different purpose and with a limited payload of about 70 tons. His philosophy was, let's not work by stages [as is usual in spacecraft design], but let's assemble everything and then try it. And at last it will work. There were several attempts and failures with Lunnik [a series of uncrewed Soviet moon probes]. Sending man to the moon is too complicated, too complex for such an approach. I think it was doomed from the very beginning.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_spaceflight-related_accidents_and_incidentsReckless? I think we were reckless. Go look at how many training accidents we had. The idea that the soviets "cut corners" is propaganda. It's in our school text books... We have killed a lot more people through our space program than the Russians/Soviets.
Your comment is a propaganda hit piece. NASA operated under intense public scrutiny and every failure was public, while the Soviet Space Program only showed the world their successes and it is absolutely true the Soviets cut corners whenever possible. Further, it should be noted we will never know the truth death count from the Soviet Space Program because of the secrecy around the program.
So secret that they have openly admitted their failures? My point is the US was far more reckless over the years. From Apollo to the space shuttle, we got a lot of people killed even after issues were brought to light. Shuttle program should have ended in the 80s when it was apparent how dangerous they were. It was ridiculous it went another 10 years and another crew had to die (and then went another half decade). We have used Soyuz rockets for the past 20 years! Every American astronaut is fluent in Russian because their rockets are safer than anything else. We can be proud of what we accomplished, but we shouldn't discount the Russians as reckless and rushed. They did a lot of things better than us for sure.
Do we buy stuff made in China because it's better made or more ethical? No, we buy crap made in China because it's cheaper than producing that stuff in the US.The US has used the Soyuz rocket because NASA doesn't have the funding (Or possibly permission) to develop/use/test their own rocket, because it's effectively a waste of money. Why build or use your own when your enemy is glad to throw money on that stuff?That is literally the only reason why they use Russian rockets. It's cheaper than developing, producing and launching your own.
... we used Soyuz because Columbia blew up. We had no intention of retiring our space shuttles until after the disaster that killed the entire crew. We had our own rockets and we stopped using them because they were too dangerous, instead opting for the much more reliable Russian Soyuz.
That's a complete load of horseshit lolA quick google search says exactly why they use it and it's not some "The Soyuz is safe!" myth.It costs a fuckton of money to get into space, and the US doesn't have a rocket program because they had the space shuttle. Rebooting the rocket program would cost TOOOONS of money and NASA effectively works on a shoestring budget.Why develop your own rocket when someone else is willing to foot that bill?
Thinking it was ever about space is a bad take. It was always about ICBMs and missile/rocket technology. An ICBM that goes into space is virtually impossible to shoot down. That was the entire point of both space programs.
The soviets achieved:First satelliteFirst mammal in orbitFirst spacecraft to achieve escape velocityFirst spacecraft to impact the moonFirst photographs of the far side of the moonFirst gravity assistFirst mission to another planetFirst return of living creatures to EarthFirst human in spaceFirst spacewalkFirst multi-crewed missionFirst soft landing on the moonFirst spacecraft in lunar orbitFirst space stationFirst soft-landing on MarsOnly soft-landing on VenusAnd a bunch of other technical firsts. The early Soviet space program was leaps ahead. A lot of it was to do with the fact that the Soviets could just put more and bigger stuff into orbit than the Americans for a long time. Explorer 1 weighed 15kg: Sputnik 2's mission payload weighed 500kg, and the parts of the launch vehicle that remained attached weighed several tonnes more. This advantage held until the mid 60's. It allowed a completely different design philosophy to hold in early Soviet spacecraft, because they had the mass budget to play around with, and it let them get away with some cruder but more robust engineering solutions. For example, a lot of early Soviet spacecraft (such as the Sputniks, Lunas, etc.) had their main equipment inside a pressure hull filled with inert nitrogen that was circulated with fans to provide cooling, with shutters controlling the radiation of heat out into space from the hull. Early Soviet space photography is also generally of much higher quality than US stuff, because instead of using video tubes they shot on film, developed that film on-board and then scanned the pictures with a point-scan photomultiplier tube so they could be turned into a high-fidelity one-dimensional stream and sent back to earth.Though they definitely lost their edge in the 70's for a whole host of reasons (not just losing the advantage in launch vehicles, but also all sorts of other factors, some technical (like the slow development of the Soviet computer industry) and some political and economic), the early Soviet space program is really fascinating stuff.
It didn't hurt their efforts to "always be first" that they could classify their launch dates and mission schedules as state secrets while also being able to pick up any number of newspapers to know exactly what their rivals were planning and when, so they could always try to beat Americans to any milestone that was being attempted.
Everything the Soviets did, the Americans did eventually. The Americans did something the Soviets never managed to. That is why the Americans won the space race.
I mean not only did the Americans win the space race, they won the still exists as a country debate
Name checks out
The ROI was missile technology for nukes. That was the entire point of the space race. Straight up. An ICBM that goes into space is virtually untouchable by any and all missile/air defense systems.
Your first point is factually incorrect. Korolev devoted his entire life to getting to the moon, that was his dream and as head of the Soviet Space Program he did everything in his power to accomplish it. When he died, the Soviets pivoted because they had no real chance to land on the moon.
The Moon program proceeds to have four failed launchesThis, to me, is the key. They had four of the new Vulkan rockets (their version of the Saturns) blow up on the launchpad. No matter what they tried, they couldn't engineer a rocket strong enough but safe enough to get humans to the Moon.
it would have required several more years to finishMaybe even longer. Getting 30 rocket engines to work simultaneously, without self-destructing, is exceptionally hard. Just ask Spacex. (With the second launch scheduled for Friday, let's see how well this comment ages)
They've been successful plenty of times with 27 engines.
kind of sucks cuz if the soviets had landed humans  on the moon  the space race could've kept on going and they probably would've built a moon base to try and one up America. And then America would have to have a moon base and then we would've had a moon base decades ago.
As seen in the TV show 'for all mankind'
In the alternative history show “For All Mankind”, where the USSR gets to the moon first, the creators said that the “branch point” where that universe diverges from ours was when that rocket designer died. In their universe, he didn’t die, and that’s why they got to the moon first.
Wasn't one of the failed moon launches one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions in history?Like the strapped 50 kerosene rockets together and letter rip and then pogoing tore the thing apart?and the scientists knew that would happen, but Soviet beauracracy is what it is.Personally, I doubt America would have landed on the moon if JFK had survived. His death was the push America needed, IMHO, but if you think I am wrong about that I would love to hear your take.
But they never launched a space station by themselves. Are they acoustic?
Also, the Soviets were able to achieve many of the scientific aims of a manned mission (returning samples of lunar rock, performing various surface level experiments) using the Luna landers and Lunokhod rovers, for a fraction of the cost and risk. One thing people often forget about Apollo is how much of a massive gamble it was. NASA lost one whole crew before Apollo even got into orbit, had to abort one moon landing mid-flight, and they came close to having to abort or losing more astronauts on a number of other occasions. Apollo 11 came incredibly close to needing to be aborted. If they had kept going after Apollo 17 they absolutely would have lost a crew at some point, statistically speaking. In the context of a national dick-wagging contest, the loss of Apollo 11 or the abortion of the mission would have been a tragedy, but it could have been spun as a noble one, and they would have had every chance to succeed the next time. If the Soviets had lost or had to abort their own first moon mission, it would have been far more humiliating than to simply never have tried, and there was always a possibility of that, and not that remote a one either, on every single Apollo mission.
In the Smithsonian there is one of the suits the soviets made to walk on the moon (Ross Perot bought it).It was huge and you climbed in the back through a door.
Many US space suits also use rear-entry.Edit: settle down, kiddos.
I've seen plenty of rear entry prototype Mars suits.  Basically the suit stays outside, you get in it from the back and detach from the rover.  Afaik, Mars regolith is just as dangerous as Moon regolith.  Like asbestos bad.  You don't want to be bringing that inside a vehicle/habitat.
Your mom uses rear entry…
So do a lot of people.
'So, why did the Space Race conclude immediately after the American Moon landings?'Very quietly, the Soviet Moon programme continued until 1974. In November 1972  the fourth N1 (7L) rocket exploded 110 seconds after launch. An investigation was started to remedy the cause of the explosion which was due to shocks created by the planned engine shutdown getting ready to jettison the first stage. These were applied to the N1 8L rocket which was already largely complete and a date for launch, lunar flyby and an automated unmanned landing was made for August 1974. However, politics intervened.The Soviet Politburo was seeing billions going into a rocket programme that had not succeeded in any meaningful way. The N1 was a design of Sergei Korolev, by then long dead and a bitter rival to the pre-eminent rocket designer Valentin Glushko who had no intention of defending it to the leadership. The whole space programme was being led by Korolev's former deputy Vasiley Mishkin who was already blamed for a series of problems with the Soyuz programme (mostly down to political interference); so he made a convenient scapegoat.The N1-L3 Moon programme was effectively cancelled in 1974, but only officially ended in 1976. The completed 8L rocket and several partially completed N1 rockets were all broken up. However, some of the NK-33 and NK-43 engines survived and were (much) later used in the American Antares rocket and the Russian Soyuz 2-1v and Soyuz 3. All of the manned Soviet lunar missions were kept secret until the Gorbachev era; officially they had never existed.The cancellation of the N1 rocket was made possible in good part because Glushko had plans for a super-heavy rocket of his own which was much simpler to build and test. This became the superb Energia rocket which was first launched in 1987.
The USSR tried to do it, but they couldn't build a successful equivalent to the Saturn V). They did 4 test launches and all failed catastrophically. The last failed test was a few weeks before the last lunar mission by the US. So the space race did end in late 1972 by both parties - the US with 6 successful missions, and the USSR with 4 failed launches, and the USSR simply couldn't afford to continue.The US caught up in the space race because it was economically far more powerful and could simply outspend and out-develop the USSR. As these efforts got more complex, the US had more resources to pull on - and the lunar efforts were extraordinarily complex.
Also because the US had enough transparency and accountability to fix disasters like the Apollo 1 fire in a proper way.
While there was definitely some of that, the Soviet program simply didnt have as much funding as the US program. The US was able to build facilities to do integrated tests on each component of the Saturn V, which fixed a ton of problems with the rocket before a full launch. The Soviets on the other hand had to test each rocket with a full launch, which as the other poster pointed out, failed catastrophically every time. Another aspect is that our material and manufacturing capacity in the US was much better than in the USSR. To hold the massive amount of fuel, the Soviets had to use spherical tanks (which are better able to contain pressure compared to cylindrical tanks) because they couldnt manufacture a strong enough cylindrical tank. This resulted in the whole rocket needing a shroud for structural stability which carried with it a lot of dead weight, whereas the Saturn V’s structure was made out of the tanks themselves.Here is a cross section diagram of the Soviet N1 Lunar Rocket that shows the spherical tanks and structure on top.
Yes. But still, compare how the Soviets covered up and swept problems under the carpet with the board set up to address Apollo 1.
The US caught up in the space race because it was economically far more powerful and could simply outspend and out-develop the USSRThis is hard to really parse, but I suspect the American system and attitudes towards work and government had a huge bearing on our success as well. Especially in the 60's, we still had the postwar, deep respect and pride for American institutions (that Viet Nam would help erode). It's something to read oral histories from Apollo workers, down to the lower rungs of blue-collar industry - "Kennedy's Deadline" gets mentioned by, like everyone, there was the national panic caused by Sputnik and our early (and very public) launch failures, a growing unease that the Soviets were indeed superior to use technologically and systemically. Throw in a martyred president who was publicly enthused about the moon (while hiding his private ambivalence) - it all added up to a "lightning in a bottle" cultural situation, that happened to align with politics and economics. I don't think we'll see anything close to Apollo until we discover an extinction-event meteor is headed our way and we have a handful of years to save ourselves. (And 90% of Republicans won't believe it's true, because, "science").
90% of Republicans won't believe it's true, because, "science"Some of them will believe it's true and will welcome it, because, "rapture."
Or they'll try to put it into a stable Earth orbit and mine it for $$$
Their initial rocket design was based on their ICBM technology which allowed them to get into space first.  The USA decided very early on to develop rocket technology specific for the space effort.  The end result of this was that the Soviets were able to gain an initial lead in the space race but when it came to the transition to actual travel to the moon, their rocket technology (still based on ICBMs) kept blowing up on the launching pad and our technology (the Saturn V) allowed us to win the race.  Plus God is obviously an American who hates the dirty Commies.
both the US and the Soviet programs were based of the German V2 rockets, essentially the Soviets ended up with the factories and missiles, shipped it to the middle of nowhere, grabbed a scientist from the gulag and told him to make it better. The US on the other hand ended up with the Nazi scientists, the chief scientist was a guy called Wernher von Braun, who was mad about space travel, to the degree that he was more than willing to sign up and work with the Nazi's to get shit into space, it wasn't till he was in the US and finished working on the redstone program that he got a chance to build the Saturn V
Also fun fact, Neil Armstrong’s first words on the moon were cut off mid sentence and the actual line was "That's one small step for Neil, one giant leap for me on the moon on god fr fr”.
The short version is that the Soviet Union ran out of money and there wasnt much point in being second to the moon. Manned travel to the moon is extraordinarily expensive and was something like 4 percent of all the USA's GDP at the time.
A big part of it was the way the USSR ran their space program. They were hellbent on beating the Americans at every turn. They had all the other firsts, too. The way they were able to pull off all the other mile stones was by cutting corners and deprioritizing safety for baseline success.  The Russians put a man in orbit, but he nearly died on reentry. The Americans followed shortly after, and invested more heavily in safety and build quality. When it came to the technical and logistic challenge of putting a man on the moon and returning him to earth safely, the Americans were already well practiced at the tech and willing to make the investment to make it a reality. The Soviets couldn't match that because their strategy of quickly fabricating the simplest rocket needed to get into orbit wasn't sufficient to go farther.
and invested more heavily in safety and build quality.Build quality being the key -- a primary purpose to the moon program was building up precision manufacturing capabilities to enable future military needs, without counting it as defense spending.Eisenhower's military industrial speech preceded the moonshot speech by five months -- the moon program was a way to shift a lot of R&D and industrial investment from the military budget to a civilian agency. Kennedy may have set more ambitious goals and charismatic tone than Nixon would have, but I'm quite certain Eisenhower was laying the groundwork to announce a major expansion of R&D under a civilian banner in his speech.
They really couldn’t. They did well in the space race by throwing safety and caution to the wind. The negatives of failing one or more moon landings would’ve adversely effected them at home
Soviet Union liked very much bragging rights that come from being the first. They watched carefully USA and actually rushed many aspects of space race, cutting corners to be the first. That included first satellite launch, first man in orbit and first space walk. When they failed to arrive to the Moon first, they were not that interested any more.  And the project still was very expensive and difficult. So, it was cancelled and they tried to get first to Venus, for example.
The U.S. and Soviets were sending probes to Venus since the early 60s.  (Although the first successful-ish landing by the Soviets was in 1970)
And your point is?…Read memoirs about Russian space program, they are fascinating.
From the Soviet perspective, they won the space race and going to the moon was irrelevant because they already were the first in space, first satellite, first man in space, first woman in space, first animal in space, first unmanned missions to Mars and Venus, etc. America created this man on the moon race narrative to feel better about its own technological advances in comparison to the Soviets dominating the game for several decades. Now the narrative is so strong people forgot the Soviet accomplishments and think the US "won" because they put a person there first, but comparatively, the Soviets had a better space program up to that point, so it largely didn’t matter to them. Until the US actually did it, then they felt pressured to speed run an attempt, which failed pretty badly.
America created this man on the moon race narrative to feel better about its own technological advances in comparison to the Soviets dominating the game for several decades. To some extent yes, but what the Soviets discovered is that orbiting a human is vastly less complex than getting three to the moon's surface and back. Nobody can say how many years it would have taken their N1 to successfully fly, if their lander would actually work and how many more disasters were ahead. People seem to forget an important aspect of Kennedy's Rice speech - "No other program will organize our abilities..." - this was monstrously prescient. It may have been more of a throwaway line, but Apollo did kickstart the affordable and practical computer era for the US and the world, and develop one of the most effective project management systems (for a really vast project) in history, along with advances in telemetry, materials science, manufacturing, very little of which was top secret and most of which came from private US industries. Technology historians make a strong case that Apollo not only started the revolution of tech vs. engineering, but compressed several decades of advancement into one. And every key player and researcher and innovator was a civilian. America had a lot of people developing and inventing things, but Apollo gave them a focus and a real-world use, with a nearly-wartime urgency. It was really a spectacularly unique moment in human history.
Luna 2 of the Soviet Union was the first spacecraft to reach the moon’ssurface successfully, intentionally impacting the Moon on 13 September 1959.
US had the first unmanned missions to both Venus and Mars, Mariner 2 first Probe to any planet (Venus), and Mariner 4 to Mars. Both were flybys, Russia orbited and landed first but those were later missions.
I think it's important to consider the timing of everything as well. The US announced their plan to put a satellite into orbit first, and the Soviets responded four days later saying they would do it too. Then they decided they would do it first and pushed forward with that goal. They got Sputnik up four months earlier than the US sent up Explorer, but compare the two:Sputnik lasted for 22 days, Explorer for 111 days.Sputnik re-entered the atmosphere on January 4, 1958. Explorer remained in orbit until March 31, 1970. Sputnik was 585 mm round and 51kg with 1 watt of power, Explorer was 2,030 mm by 152 mm in diameter with a mass of 13.97kg and 60 watts of power.Sputnik was a radio transmitter with very basic equipment. Explorer had a Geiger tube, multiple temperature sensors, and acoustic and wire detectors for meteorite impact detection.Yes, the Soviets put a satellite into space four months before the US, but they put up something 3.5x heavier that was 1/4 the volume, 1/60th the power, and had electronics that a child could assemble.Look at the animals. Everyone mentions Laika in 1957, but nobody mentions Albert II, the monkey the US sent up in 1949. He died when the parachute failed to open but the Soviets always planned for Laika to die.The human programs also show similar issues. Yuri Gagarin might as well have been a dog strapped into a tin can. His craft was controlled by the ground and he was just along for the ride. He orbited the planet once and came back down. Less than a month later, Alan Shepard was launched into space where he had manual control of the craft. Gus Grissom repeated this a month later and ten months after Gagarin, John Glenn became the third American in space and the first to complete an orbit. So again, yes, the USSR put a man into orbit first but the US put the first men who had the ability to actually fly their craft into space first.None of this is to diminish what the USSR accomplished but to highlight that while their goal was to be first no matter the costs, US priorities placed higher emphasis on safety and scientific and technical capabilities.
Answer: the Soviet began their space program to design rockets capable of delivering a nuclear payload anywhere on earth. Past that anything else was dressing on the side to Soviet leadership. They only started caring more about the “space race” after American astronauts landed on the moon.
Why didn't they copy anything/everything the Americans did in space?Why didn't the Americans send a probe and lander to Venus? Even if it took a few more years, it still would have been largely preferable to avoid portraying to the world inability to match what the Soviets achieved, which would signify defeat.The answer to these questions is the space authorities in the USA and the Soviet Union prioritised different things and spent their limited resources on the things that were both technically achievable and that they gave highest priority to.
I have talked about this before, but a big reason that the Soviets failed was because they were seriously lacking in the computer technology department. The Saturn V had extremely advanced computers for the time that could properly manage the rocket while in flight. The N1 computers was absolutely primitive in comparison and couldn’t properly handle the complex operations needed for flight.It is part of the reason why the Soviets never really went any further than Mars with probes, their computers couldn’t handle the outer Solar System.
Their rockets kept exploding and they stopped funding for the project. Look up the N1 program.
They planned to do it with the N1 rocket which was massively expensive monster with 30 massive engines on the first stage. And even with that many they couldn't get the engines to work reliably - the rocket engines scale awfully. From certain size on you get combustion instability problems, which is a fancy phrase for "the engine blows up violently". The fact US got its F1 engines for Apollo working was a feat bordering with miracle, and the top genius of Soviet spaceflight, Korovlev, died. So, the engines kept exploding. The rocket kept blowing up, costing a fortune and long time to rebuild. Then Americans - after quite a bit of failures and tests of their own managed to land, and Russians in their typical style went "We lost the race to the moon? What race? We never took part in any race to the moon."
Short answer is their rocket didn't work. It exploded mid air 2 or 3 times iirc. And they gave up.
they could have replicated the feat to demonstrate their capabilities and assert their force and prestige.Philosophically, yes. Mechanically, don't underestimate how hard it is to get to the moon. Modern Russia failed to make their moon landing just a few months ago; just because we've done it before doesn't mean it's significantly easier for subsequent attempts.
In very basic terms, the Soviets lacked the resources and engineering to safely complete the project in any kind of reasonable time frame.  At the time it was built the Apollo 11 spacecraft was the most complex machine ever assembled by human beings.  It was vastly more complex than the rockets and spacecraft used to send people and satellites into orbit.There's been quite a bit of revisionism concerning the space race that seems to carry the intent of either discrediting the accomplishments of the United States, or overstating the success of the Soviet Union.  When the Soviet Union was preempting the US to certain accomplishments it was typically by a matter of months, or sometimes even weeks (with the significant exception of the gap between Sputnik being launched and the US sending up its own satellite).  The United States was essentially able to stay neck and neck with the Soviet Union on orbital spaceflight while also developing their moon landing project.  The reason people say that the United States won the space race is due to the fact that when the USSR accomplished something, the USA was able to respond in kind, usually in very short order.  When the United States preempted the USSR to the moon, the USSR essentially conceded (without saying so publicly) that they could not match this feat and decided to invest resources elsewhere, primarily into satellites
It was called the Space Race for a reason =p what government wants to compete for second place, they lost already
There are stories of many Cosmonauts dying in accidents in the 60's. I think with all the other problems their programs had, losing men on the moon would have been too much of a disaster.They cut their losses and ran, essentially.
USSR do any actions about cosmos only because of two reasons:Development of military technologies and for military purposes.International ideological advertising of scientific and technical successes of the USSR.Everything else was derived from this.In the 1960s, USSR, due to big success in the second point, began to finance a very expensive project that was profitable exclusively for the second point. N1 rocket and related Moon race.But, N1 rocket turned out to be so expensive and imperfect (its creator began to be suspected of treason) that instead of continuation of the project in any form, it was closed. And all information about it was completely classified.Why N1 rocket was so unsuccessful? Because the first point. N1 rocket was too different from ordinary military missiles and other Soviet military products.
But, N1 rocket turned out to be so expensive and imperfect (its creator began to be suspected of treason) that instead of continuation of the project in any form, it was closed. And all information about it was completely classified.In part because of Glushko refusing to make big kerolox engines for it (he was experimenting with some hyper-esoteric propellants at the moment, like this hellish cocktail) and work getting diverted to less experienced (they were only making aviation engines before) Kuznetsov bureau, which couldn't design and make big engines.Also, as soon as Korolyov died, Glushko ordered N-1 programme, which was getting better (Kuznetsov managing to shake the engines out, last N-1 only failing because of computer not being programmed to handle specific way the engine flameout happened, with earlier staging instead of full flight termination having possiblity to fling payload to orbit still), COMPLETELY ERASED, including scrapping finished rockets and dismantling all engines.We're very lucky Kuznetsov just hid those NK-33s instead and simply reported them as scrapped.
It's wildly expensive and not worth the PR to come second. The USSR was not as rich as the US.
When the Soviet Union sent the first man into space, the Americans followed suit shortly after, continuing the Space Race.That's not quite what happened. The Americans announced the goal, to land on the moon. They announced milestones along the way and as they progressed they announced dates for when each milestone would occur.Russia cut corners and ran in to beat the US to each milestone. When the time came to land on the moon though, Russia didn't have the necessary foundation. For instance, Russia didn't really have transistors and they couldn't really get their multi-engine rocket to all fire at the same time. See also https://www.iflscience.com/vladimir-komarov-the-cosmonaut-launched-into-space-knowing-he-wouldnt-come-back-alive-62875  See also how, before that, they launched Laika into space so they could say they had the first animal in space even though they didn't have a way to get her back alive.Edit: fixed URL
Because the space race was only a side show. It was, especially in America, another way to get government funding on building massive rockets/missiles for nukes. That's all the space race was, a side show for nuclear missile technology. By going into space, they make the nukes virtually untouchable by any and all missile defense systems.
Initially yes, there was a lot of dual use technologies and overlap. Gemini even launched on the Titan. Apollo-Saturn though not nearly as much. S-band radio had applicability to spy sats and there was some overlap between the AGC and Polaris guidance computer, but that was about it
Because the Americans faked the moonlanding. It was an impossible task with the technology available at that time.
Lmaoo even the soviets didn’t believe the moon landing was fake
"Comrade Premier, the Americans are pretending to land on the moon.""Oh, okay. Cancel our plans to do it for real.""Very well. Shall we alert the world that the Americans faked it?""No, send a message of congratulations and never ever ever let anyone know that our greatest enemy did something bad."
[deleted]
How come it was never done againApollo 11 was the first, Apollo 12,14,15,16,17 all landed on the moon.and today we have much better technology? Sending humans to distant places is a vanity project. You can send a camera up there, leave it for years and get a lot of data by doing that for much cheaper. This is why they have multiple rovers on Mars, which is a much more difficult technical achievement than flying to a moon that's already orbiting nearby. brainwashed peopleWhy is it that people who proclaim that others are brainwashed come out the gate swinging with questions that are answerable in like 10 minutes of Googling?
Lmao the moon landing did happen again. 12 people have been to the moon There’s also another moon landing coming soon
Have you ever seen a television program called the news? The first test flight of the new Artemis rocket went to the moon earlier this year. A manned mission is planned for 2024.
A wise man once said that if you ain't first you're last. Seriously though, the race was ultimately a political objective first, there wasn't a real strategic value to putting a couple dudes on the moon. Once they had lost, drawing any additional attention to their own moon landing attempt wouldn't have gained much with huge political costs if it failed or killed an astronaut. There isn't really much to gain from going to the moon and the US broadcasted it for all the world to see anyway. Compare/contrast this with all the objectives the soviet's beat America too. We all know Sputnik. What was the first American equivalent? That mini race in the larger race had actual strategic value. We obviously still needed to put a satellite in orbit both for progression of our own space program and for military reasons to match spy capabilities, but at the time Sputnik was HUGE world news.
They have tried and by the way, this is how closed loop spacecraft engine were created.The us found a way to get their hand on some engine that had been stored in a shed for very long, and those were the basics for a lot of engine that are still in use today i believe
Meanwhile, Boomers watch humans walk on the moon on television and think to themselves, "No thanks. This can skip my generation."
Simply put, only USA moved the goal posts to the moon, got to the moon the second time (first landing is still considered fake, and evidence has just been lost by nasa, oopsies greatest human achievement lost.). Reality is that USSR was first to other planets, brought back pictures from other planets, was first to space with man, and first woman, and first spacewalk. Truth be told, US was behind on everything from ICBMs to satellite, and the only reason they claimed they won  is they got to the moon first. Now why didnt soviets didnt get there? Many issues, of scale, to economics, to cold war heating up so funding was going elsewhere. The moon was never a big deal, its too far away, and yet too close to be useful data by going there. Soviets did everything else from sending probes to getting samples back. When the big rocket failed the time was ripe for economic and social issues, so the whole thing was shelved. By all means if this was not a race, soviets would have gone to the moon, but they chose to close it all down. Fun fact the ISS is the MIR 2.0 and Russians had a space station in orbit, so victory is with them, they got there first and they did a lot with it. US managed to get further. But humanity is the one that actually lost imo, we all though post 2001 humans would have colonies in space etc. But it took us way longer to figure out the integrated circuit and then the internet. Now we are gunning for true robotics and automation, and what we know now is, colonising other planets is a huge expensive resource heavy, dangerous endevour So all efforts are going into getting our tech better, so we can succeed.
first landing is still considered fakeOnly by people with no idea about spaceflight.and evidence has just been lost by nasaIt has not. If your conspiracy theory is so weak that you have to make up lies to back it, ...
The moon race was a way for the USA and the USSR to deter the other. Rockets can send you to the moon, but rockets can also send a nuclear weapon across an ocean.There was also some thinking at the time that whoever got to the moon first could, in theory, stage weapon attacks or anti-missile defenses there, although this wasn't super realistic in hindsight.When the USA landed there first, they Soviets knew they could no longer inspire awe by getting to the moon. So they turned their attention to other methods of generating respect and fear on the global stage.
They didn't have the technology, the rocket that they were testing only made unmanned flights and on four occasions it was found that if it had been manned the crew would have died.
Because their rocket program didn't work out. Their version of Wernher von Braun decided to up and die in the middle of the project, very inconvenient timing. So the project lost not only the lead engineer but also political backing his authority brought on the table. Also, as most things soviets did, the project was done in paranoid secrecy, and with skyrocketing costs, it was problematic to justify where all the resources were going.
Well you see, going to the moon is expensive.  It took a lot of money for America to get there, and the stumbled a bit, and even got a little lucky a few times.  The Soviets also spent a ton of money, and suffered major losses, and simply didn't have enough luck to make it.  So when the Americans got there first, and they were still having trouble, they just gave up.
